Good afternoon, everybody.
Welcome back to Direct to Web.
I'd like to introduce our next presenter,
Miguel Sanchez.
Good afternoon everyone.
Can you hear me okay?
Thank you for coming to hear
our session on Direct to Web.
I know you're probably sick of this
polls at the beginning of the sessions,
but I really need to get a read
of how many of you are WebObjects
developers here in the audience?
Now,
how many of you have used Direct to Web?
Okay, so there's a good number of people
there that are using Direct to Web.
We'll say something like 5% or so.
So you probably feel a little lonely
being the only users of Direct to Web,
right?
But, you know...
By now we've all been indoctrinated
about the relevance of BMW and our use,
so let's see if we can
bend some statistics here.
So we all know that
BMW has 3% of the market,
but...
For anybody that's been out
here in California for more than
a week realizes that locally,
it looks more like this.
Right?
So it's,
when you're doing this statistics thing,
it's very important to have a
good grip of your universe that
you're getting your sample from.
You can't just make up numbers, right?
So we take this thing very
seriously in WebObjects.
So over the lunch break,
I stood over in the corner
and I tried to count cars,
and I didn't really find any
data that substantiates this,
but I'm just guessing that about 6% of
the remaining people use 76 for Pintos,
right?
And you can't compare apples and oranges,
but out of those people
that use for Pintos,
about 90% prefer Pinto beans in their
burritos when they go have Mexican food,
right?
So what does this have
to do with Direct to Web?
Not really.
Not nothing.
Not much.
Okay?
Direct to Web is not a technology
you can explain with pie charts.
So you'll have to sit through
my presentation of one hour,
and hopefully you'll get
a little more excited.
This, just as a point of reference,
this is...
This is classified as an
advanced WebObjects session,
so I'm assuming some
WebObjects knowledge here.
This is sort of like,
if you're already a WebObjects user,
how can you take real
advantage of Direct to Web?
So, you've probably seen in the past,
it's been demoed in other sessions,
and we've shown you how Direct to
Web jumpstarts your application.
In this session,
I'm going to focus more on how
much you can customize your
application once you've started.
What will we learn?
I'm going to talk about the
architecture of Direct to Web,
so you become more familiar with
what's going on behind the scenes.
One of the most important
things in the architecture of
Direct to Web is the rule system,
so I'm going to spend some
time explaining to you
what the rule system does.
And of course,
the recurring theme of the talk
is how you can customize Direct to
Web applications at all kinds of levels.
Brief overview of what Direct to Web is.
Direct to Web is infrastructure
for making your development of
WebObjects applications easier,
much easier.
How do we achieve this?
We achieve this by giving you a
lot of pre-built functionality.
We give you a head start,
so you don't have to start from zero,
from basically doing nothing other
than giving us your database model.
We give you a full running application.
Direct to Web is not
really an application.
Don't expect to find a directtoweb.app
anywhere in your system.
Rather,
it's a set of frameworks and tools.
Although I will be referring
to Direct to Web applications,
I mean your applications
that use Direct to Web.
And Direct to Web introduces
something new to WebObjects,
which is rule-based programming,
to say it one way.
I'll talk about that.
What is a Direct to Web application?
Most importantly,
it's a normal WebObjects
application with an HTML frontend
and that uses EOF in the back.
Like I said before,
you probably started with a lot of
the pre-built components we give you.
And you customize the application
we give you either from zero,
you actually have a running database
application without doing anything,
to quite extensively,
as I'm going to show you.
And you know WebObjects gives you
a lot of great runtime flexibility.
Direct to Web adds to that.
It gives you yet another level in
which you can change your application.
So now we're going to go
to a brief demo to show,
just to show Direct to Web to
those that have never seen
a Direct to Web application.
Can we get the demo machine up on screen?
Thank you.
So the starting point for
a Direct to Web application
is always a database model.
That we ask from you,
in addition to the price of Web objects.
So the example we're going to be
using throughout our application
is a simple bug tracking tool.
You're all developers.
You probably all have a need for
something like this within your projects.
We have a very small,
simple database that has two main tables.
The bugs,
which problems you have on your software.
The users.
Users can either have created the bugs,
or be the engineers
assigned to fix the bugs.
And you have lookup tables
like the state of the bug and
which project it belongs to.
So that's what we start out with.
Once you have the project
and you create a Direct to
Web project in Project Builder,
it uses it.
Oh, let me stop here for a moment.
I've noticed that a lot of
WebObjects developers out
there have been paying very,
very close attention to our demos and
whether we click something or not.
Let me come clean on it before.
To save some time,
we pre-compile some of the applications
and we've set some defaults.
We're not showing every single step here.
Don't spend too much time trying
to figure out why we skipped it.
We're just trying to save some time here.
This is a project that was
created using Direct to Web.
All you get is a basic template
for a WebObjects application.
It has an application, class, a session,
and very basic components.
It knows about the model.
All you gave us was the model.
Let's look at the project in the browser.
Remember, you haven't done anything other
than prepared your database
and given us your model.
What do you get for free?
You get a full-fledged database
application with a fake login page.
That's just a starting
point for your app.
It doesn't have any login logic.
We're just going to log in right now.
But the application automatically
knows about every entity in your model,
about all the attributes in your model,
and creates the most generic
database access application for it.
So if we look at the pop-up on the left,
you'll see that this application
already knows about bugs and
projects and states and users.
And it gives you the basic pages
you would need in any database
application to query on them,
to list the results, to edit data.
So for example,
let's go to the search page for the bug.
Direct to Web gives us this page.
It knows about all the fields in
the bug table in our database.
Let's query on it.
We won't specify any search
criteria for the demo here.
We have a list page here.
We get all the results from the database.
We can go down to a particular page.
Click on the first one, please.
We can look at the edit page to
analyze the attributes of the bug.
So I'm not going to go
into much detail here.
The point is, you get this for free.
So any WebObjects developers out there
should at least use Direct to Web as
your database administration tool.
You get this application for free.
Why not use it?
Now, of course,
we can't guess everything you're
going to want in your application.
So you're going to want to
customize certain things.
For that, we have an applet written in
Java running alongside your application.
Ernest is going to maximize now,
which it hung, actually.
We have to restart the app.
I promised myself that every
time this thing crashed,
I was going to give out a T-shirt.
I hope it doesn't crash more than twice.
Did you relaunch the applet or the app?
OK.
So by now,
you've probably all heard that if
you've been coming to our talks,
how we're using-- we're not
using the final bits of the Java,
of the MRJ drop that's going
to be released tomorrow.
So the things didn't come
together at the same time.
So we relaunch-- that's also why we're
launching it from the command line,
because we didn't have embedded
Java running in the browser.
So anyway, we have the applet running
alongside our application,
which allows certain levels
of basic customization.
For example,
if we go back to the Edit page,
you'll see that the title is
at the bottom of the page.
Let's say we want to rearrange them.
So we want to rearrange-- think
of the applet sort of as an
inspector into your application,
and you rearrange the title
to be the first thing.
And then you do your project,
and then you put the state of
the bug as your second thing.
And here's where the power comes in.
You save,
and without restarting your application,
you refresh, and you get the change.
Okay?
You can do other kinds of things.
See the project line and the state line?
Those are relationships.
We want to use other kinds of
components to display them.
We want to use a little browser
to display the available projects
that the bug can be assigned to,
and a little list of radio buttons
to display the list of states
that the bug can be assigned to.
So you have those kinds of components
available to you with Direct to Web.
Again, he's doing those changes.
He saves.
We do a refresh.
and we see things like that.
So I'm not going to spend a lot of time,
actually any more time than this,
explaining all the little things you
can configure with Direct to Web.
The point is you get an
application for free,
you gave us your model,
and you can configure it at least at,
this is the first level
you can configure it at.
Now let's go to the project.
Just to briefly show the project,
the point here is all of what
you just saw on the screen has,
for now, no code in your project.
We're not a code generation wizard here.
We didn't just dump out
all these pages for you.
All of this is being generated
dynamically behind the scenes by
the Direct to Web infrastructure.
So there's no code in your
project yet for any of this.
Now could we go back to the slides,
please?
Can we go back to the slides?
Oh, thank you.
So, let's look at the architecture of
the apps in a little more detail.
Like I said,
these are basic WebObjects applications.
These are normal WebObjects
applications using HTML with
the app server in the back.
If we look inside,
you probably have your code
interacting with the EOF framework
and the WebObjects framework.
You would use EOF to
access your database,
having given us the definition of
your database through an EO model.
And you probably defined a
bunch of wall components that
give the look of your pages.
So, these are the applications you
should all be familiar with
being WebObjects developers.
Direct to Web, abbreviated here as D2W,
is just another framework
you include in your project,
or another framework already
included in your project when you
create a Direct to Web project.
Like you saw,
this framework must have a whole bunch
of pre-built components to display
lists and edits and queries of the
entities you have in your database.
Now, these components are built using
normal WebObjects component.
There isn't too much trickery here.
But,
they have to be configured at runtime by
something which we call the rule system.
The rule system uses information
from your EO model to find
out about your entities,
obviously.
We don't know what they
are until you give us one.
And also, from another file we introduce,
which has the extension D2W model file.
For now, I'll call it a rule file.
Think of it as a text file
with a bunch of rules.
So, the rule system uses the EO model,
the rule file,
and then the components to display
and configure the pages at runtime.
Now, let's talk about the rule
system in more detail.
The rule system consists of
a set of rules and classes to
derive values from those rules.
It answers questions at runtime we
might want to know as developers.
We might want to know, well,
what background color should I be
using to display this string?
How should I display the property name
in case I'm localizing my application?
Which component should I use now?
So we use the rule system to get
an answer to all these things.
How do we interact with the rule system?
The first thing the rule
system needs to know is where
our application currently is.
What is it doing?
We have to tell it this.
We have to tell it which
task we're trying to perform,
which entity we're dealing with,
and more specifically,
at the entity level, which property or
attribute we're handling.
So that's what the rule
system asks from us.
Tell us where you are.
Once you've, I'm sorry,
I forgot something in this slide.
We tell the rule system this
something using an instance of a
class which we call the D2W context.
For now, think of it as nothing more
than a dictionary of key value
pairs where you tell it how,
where your application is.
Once you've initialized one of these
contexts and you've told the rule system,
this is where I am,
you can now ask it to derive more values.
You can now say, okay,
so what is the background color
I should be using at this point in time?
What is the display name for property?
Notice that I've shortened
the full English questions
into variable names here.
The context uses the rules,
a process which we call firing,
to get information back to us.
Let's give an example.
Here we have a very simple
rule set with three rules.
What kind of information
is specified in this rule?
In the first rule,
we say if the task is edit and the entity
that we're handling is a bug and somebody
asks us what the page name should be,
the result should be my edit.
The second rule says if the property is
name and the entity is user and somebody
wants to know what the localized name is,
assuming we're localizing to Spanish,
we return nombre.
The third one says if we're listing
users and somebody wants to know
what table color we should be using,
we use red.
Okay, this is a very simple rule system,
a very simple rule set,
but it just hopefully you'll
get to see how the rules look.
How would this be used by a context?
Let's say we initialize a context
with the following two values.
We say the entity is user
and the property is name,
and we want to know what
the localized name is.
So we initialize a context
and we ask the context,
now derive this value for me.
The context goes off and says,
and finds a rule that resolves
something about the localized name.
Then it checks on its
left-hand side and says,
does the context I was given bind in with
the conditions that this rule specifies?
And it will find it,
and it will return us localized name.
So from a developer's point of view,
anywhere in our code where we see
D2W context dot localized name,
that will be resolved
at runtime to nombre,
assuming we have initialized
the context to these values.
Now this is a very simple example,
but the rule system is recursive.
So the end question you might be
asking might require several other
intermediate steps for the rule system
to get yet more values to the context.
So it will ask more questions and
initialize itself with yet more values,
and then in the end,
it will give you the answer you want.
So it's recursive.
Now that I've talked a little
bit about the rule system,
let me show you, like,
pull the curtain on Direct to Web and
show you what the essence of this.
How do all the pages that we
provide for you really work?
Like I said, we use standard WebObjects
components to build our pages.
The only difference is that these
components use the rule system to
configure themselves at runtime.
This is a normal Web object component
that doesn't use Direct to Web,
that you should all be familiar with.
You have an HTML part
and a WAD definition.
Let's say that you're generating
some sort of edit page.
So this is your solution.
So you even hard code
something like name colon,
and the only runtime information you
want is the actual value of that name.
So you introduce a Web objects tag,
and then you resolve that tag using
a woo string messaging the current
object's name attribute or runtime.
This is normal WebObjects programming.
The pages we provide for
you look very similar.
We have HTML and we
have a WAD definition,
but our pages have to be
more general than yours.
Because, let me go back one page,
yours says name colon there because
you know it's your solution.
We don't know really which attribute
we're displaying until runtime,
so that has to be another
dynamic thing that we resolve.
And in our bindings file,
notice the use of D2W context
dot display name for property.
So we tie into the rule
system to find out,
okay, what is the name of the property
I should be displaying now?
And we do that.
So components like that is what the
Direct to Web framework provides you.
Those are called Direct to Web templates.
And as you saw in the first demo,
we give you some basic things.
We give you pages to do queries.
We give you pages to
edit and to do listing.
These templates automatically configure
themselves to the database model you're
using in your particular situation.
And we use the rule system to
get information at runtime.
Of course, what you're all here for is,
these can be customized.
How do you customize them?
You can customize them at the very basic
level like we showed you in the first
demo by using the Web Assistant applet
running alongside your applet.
You also have full access to the HTML.
So that's a very high level.
You can really just redraw
the HTML as you see fit.
You also have low level access into
certain components we plug into the page.
So you might like our HTML,
but you just want to display
your strings a certain way.
So you can do that.
You can plug in your own components.
So I'm going to show you these
two things in the next demo.
Do we have the demo machine please?
So when we last left our
application in the prior demo,
we had this generic database
access application that had
list pages and query pages.
So here's a list page, right?
Now let's say that we're just picky
developers and we don't want that garbage
can on the right to show up there and
the edit icon on the left to show up.
So you just don't want that.
But then you bring up the web assistant
and you realize that I didn't think
far enough and I didn't really offer
you a way of getting rid of those
things using the web assistant.
No problem.
You still have access to that page.
Using the web assistant, you can tell it,
please give me the HTML to this page.
Copy the HTML of this
page into my project.
We did this operation before the demo.
Can you bring up the project?
Once the HTML is copied
into your project,
You see, can you point to the list?
Yeah, there it is.
So we copied the actual HTML that
Direct to Web uses to generate that
page is now copied into your project.
We can open that HTML in
Web Objects Builder.
And you have full access
to it to do edits.
Now there's something
special about this HTML.
Remember, this is the HTML that
comes from Direct to Web.
It's HTML that should be able
to adapt to all kinds of models.
So you won't find any references to
your particular project in this HTML.
There'll be a bunch of repetitions
and conditionals and no reference
to your specific model because all
of that is resolved until runtime.
So if we look at the actual
raw HTML and the bindings,
let's look at the bindings there.
And let's say, for example,
the attributes order there.
If you look at the line that
resolved the display key,
you will see a reference
to the D2W context.
So this is the HTML Direct to
Web uses to draw your page at runtime.
So it's a very generic form of HTML.
You will see why that's
important in a minute.
For now,
can we go back to the page briefly,
Ernest, to show what we wanted to
do in Internet Explorer?
Remember, we wanted to get rid of the
trash can and the edit icon.
So first, let's show that we're
actually editing that page.
Ernest is going to type
a little message saying,
this is my HTML.
We make the font a little
bigger so that you can all see.
We save and then we-- I precompiled
the app before this part of the demo,
so we were able to refresh the page.
And just so you know,
we are accessing this
version of the HTML.
So now we go back and do the
actual changes we wanted to do.
We wanted to get rid of the trash can,
so we look for the trash can
and we just get rid of it.
We don't want it in our application.
And we want to change the edit icon from
being an image to a hyperlink with text.
So this is not a session
in graphic design,
so I'm not going to impress you
with any fancy HTML editing.
I just want to show you as developers
that you have access to that HTML.
And you refresh,
and those are the changes, right?
So you might say, well, so what?
That's what WebObjects does.
Yes, it's what WebObjects does,
but can you bring up the Web Assistant?
Remember that this is
still a Direct to Web page.
So on one hand,
you have access to the HTML,
and you do your layout as you please.
But on the other hand,
look at the title property over...
Can you make the browser...
Don't refresh yet.
Yeah.
See the title being there on the right?
Let's say that we want to move
the title over to the left and
remove the creation date row,
column, I'm sorry.
So we can still use the
Web Assistant for that.
We do save, and then we hit refresh.
So you don't lose the ability to
the dynamic aspects of Direct to
Web by editing the HTML.
Those that have used Direct to
Web in the past and are
familiar with freezing pages,
this is not freezing pages,
this is generating templates.
In prior versions of Direct to Web,
you would freeze your page and you have
full access to the Java and the HTML,
but then you would lose this.
So that's the high level.
You're changing the HTML.
Now let's go a little low level.
Do you see where it says
description text and resolution?
Those strings are kind of long.
Let's say that you as developers
have written a little component
that shortens strings,
that only displays the first
20 characters of your string.
It could be anything else,
but for demo purposes,
you have a little component
that shortens strings.
We have such a thing in our project.
Can you bring up the project, please?
Show the component.
Short string.
So just a normal WebObjects component
that takes an object and a key binding
and if it receives a string value
that is greater than 20 characters,
it just truncates it.
Nothing special here.
What's special is that this could
be any one of your components.
Now go back to the page and the browser.
Now, look at this.
We don't stop the app.
We're still running.
We go over into the
Web Assistant and we say,
for the description,
we want to use a custom component
whose name is short string.
So we type in short string there,
and we're going to do the same
thing for the resolution text.
So without restarting our application,
Direct to Web is going to
know that in that page,
it should plug in our component.
So he's doing it for the second one.
And remember that our component
had an object and a key binding.
So that's how we
instantiate your component,
and we give you the object
we want you to display,
and it's up to you.
So now, remember, no restarting the app,
just refreshing your browser.
There's our component.
Okay?
Very simple, I mean,
non-flashy stuff in terms of
the HTML we're showing you,
but I hope that as developers you're
seeing the hooks of where you can plug
in your own code and your own HTML.
Now, can you bring up the rule
editor for the model?
Bring up the project first
and show the resources bucket.
I'm showing you all this
without generating much code,
right?
So where's all this information about
what I should be displaying being stored?
As we do all these configurations,
we're creating rules
specific to our application.
Those rules are being stored in a
file called the user.d2wmodel file.
To look at the file,
to look at that file, you can use a tool
called the rule editor.
Can you bring up rule editor, please?
So all those configurations we're
doing using the Web Assistant are
stored as rules in this file,
which we use rule editor to edit.
So that's where the magic is going,
because I haven't been showing you code.
I've shown you HTML, but not code.
But you're noticing
that I'm changing stuff,
so where is that information going?
Here.
That's where it is.
So that's the end of our second demo.
Can we go back to the slides, please?
Oh, they're there.
Sorry.
This monitor still shows the other one.
So I've given you an overview
of the architecture of Direct to
Web and how the rule system works.
Now let's focus a little
more on you as developers.
Where-- let's review some of the
stuff I show you on the screen.
And where, as developers,
if you're working on a
Direct to Web application,
where do you think about plugging
in your own HTML or your own code?
Well, first of all,
don't forget that a lot of the things in
Direct to Web are now driven by rules.
So you're all used to writing
Java and changing component
definitions in Web Objects Builder.
Now create another space in
your brain to think about rules.
You know, maybe I could do some,
maybe I don't need to write Java.
Maybe I don't need to change HTML here.
Maybe I could change this with rules.
So start thinking in terms of,
can I just, is it,
maybe it's simple enough for
me to add a certain rule and my
application could be reconfigured.
So don't limit yourself to Java.
A little bit unrelated to rules,
but another point where you can plug
in your own code is custom components.
Custom components is what I used on
the second demo to shorten the string.
So you probably have your own components
to display integers or whatever
you're displaying your own way.
You use a custom component for that.
I'll give a little more detail.
You also have Java API to
invoke Direct to Web pages.
You might have a WebObjects application
that does not use Direct to Web,
or at least in some parts it
doesn't use Direct to Web,
and then the user clicks somewhere
and they want to jump into a
dynamic Direct to Web page.
There's Java API to do that.
We also have named configurations.
You might want to reuse a certain page,
such as query,
in a slightly different style without
really rewriting your whole page.
You can define two versions of the
page and use it slightly differently.
I'm going to go into detail
into each one of these.
And you also have Java API to
plug into the rule system.
Rules.
Like I said, all of the configuration
information we're doing with
rules is stored in two files.
The configuration you're
doing with the Web Assistant,
which is the web applet running
alongside your application,
is stored in the file
called user.d2wmodel.
So anytime you save your
changes in the Web Assistant,
they go there.
You probably don't want to put
your own rules there because the
Web Assistant is going to override them.
Unless you're not using the
Web Assistant and then you're never
saving out to that file again.
But if you're using the Web Assistant,
you probably want to put your
rules into the second file,
which is called d2w.d2wmodelfile.
You just add a text file to your project
and you start adding rules there.
That's the second file.
Also remember that your entry
point to rules is this thing
we call the D2W context.
So we use key value coding and
you do somewhere in your code
D2W context dot and then the thing
you want to resolve to and it will be
resolved to you by the rule system.
Now let's look at custom components.
For custom components to work,
you need to implement two bindings,
or you need to be aware that Direct to
Web is going to give you two bindings.
Remember,
custom components are that thing
that we're shortening the string.
So we're going to give you the object
that we're working with and the key
that we're currently displaying.
So having that information,
you do whatever you want.
You display that value as you want,
using the HTML and the logic you want.
So you probably will end up using
key value coding somewhere in
your component in this manner.
You've seen our key value coding
utilities in another session.
So somewhere in your custom component,
you're probably going to have a call,
a line that does this.
It says, okay,
get me the actual value from
the object that you passed me.
And then you have the value and then
you do whatever you want with it.
And as you saw,
once you have your custom component,
you can plug it into your application,
either using the Web Assistant or writing
your own couple of rules to plug it in.
You only need to do two rules.
One saying, for this property,
please use the custom component,
and the custom component
name you should use is this.
Direct to Web API, Java API to plug into
Direct to Web pages.
You can instantiate and
configure Direct to Web pages
from your code using Java.
Now, you don't use the normal WebObjects
mechanism to call up a page,
to get to a page that uses Direct to Web.
Instead, your entry point is the
main class of Direct to Web,
D2W,
and a static method on it called factory.
So that's sort of where you,
instead of messaging wo
application dot application,
your entry point for these kinds
of pages is D2W dot factory.
Now that class implements methods
that return all the pages,
all the kinds of pages that
Direct to Web provides for you.
So, there are going to be methods
in that class that return the
edit page for a certain entity,
the list page for a certain entity,
the query page for a certain entity.
Once you get back that page,
the object you got back compiles
to an interface that we define
so that you can configure it.
So within the Direct to Web framework,
there are certain interface definitions
such as edit page interface,
list page interface,
and query page interface,
just to name some,
which you use to message this page
which you just got back to configure it.
Let me give you a more concrete example.
Let's say that you have a
WebObjects application where
you're doing your normal stuff and
you want to implement a method that
returns a Direct to Web list page.
You already know the data source
where the data is coming from.
You just want to show that data up on the
screen using a Direct to Web list page.
So your method would be called something
like Return a List Page method.
You know that what you're
returning is going to implement
the list page interface,
because you're going to be using
Direct to Web to get to this page.
You use the factory to ask for
the list page for the entity.
I don't know what entity.
Notice that E, the entity,
is one of the attributes
you pass to this method.
That's up to you, right?
So at this point you say, D2WFactory.
give me the list page for this entity.
And we ask for a session to
do certain initializations.
So we give you the list page,
but that's just the list page
without knowing where it's getting
its data from or where you want us
to go after you're done with it.
So you use the methods implemented
in the list page interface to
kind of initialize this page.
So you set the data source.
I'm not showing where the
data source comes from here.
That's your responsibility.
The point is that you tell us.
And you also tell us what the next page
you want to be after you press return.
the list page.
So this is how you would call a list
page using the Direct to Web API or
any other Direct to Web page.
Named configurations.
Let's say that in the
application we have,
remember that it's a bug tracking system.
We have ways of querying
on bugs and on users,
etc.
Let's say that for the query page,
we have two levels of
access for our users.
We have simple users that
only see a limited number
of fields they can query on.
And we have advanced users that see a
much bigger set of fields to query on.
But we want to use the same page.
So we define what we call
this a named configuration,
and we give it whatever name we want.
In this case,
we're going to call it our simple
query named configuration and our
advanced query named configuration.
Once you have these two configurations,
and I'm going to demo this,
I'm just showing you the slide.
You call up the named configuration using
the method page for configuration named,
which behaves similarly to the
other methods I have shown you.
The last thing I want to talk
about is how to integrate your
own code into the rule system.
Up to now, the rules we've shown you are
these kinds of very simple rules
that have a condition on the
left and I'm sorry I skipped one.
This is, this is, the slide is wrong.
Instead of localized property name,
it should have been a constant value.
That was the first part of the animation.
So up to now we had rules that
had constant names that they,
the things they resolved
to were constant,
specified as strings.
Remember where it said bug
title and things like that.
But wouldn't it be nice if when you're
resolving the value of this rule,
you're actually calling
one of your methods?
For example, localized property value.
Let's say that's your method.
You want to define in code how
you're going to resolve this rule.
You can.
You can implement that method in
a subclass of default assignment,
which is also one of the classes
provided in Direct to Web.
Here's an example of how
you would implement that.
You have a subclass here
called MyAssignment,
which is a subclass
of default assignment.
It implements
The method,
you can name it however you want.
In this case,
it's called localized property name.
Within the method,
because you have a subclass
of default assignment,
you have access to the context.
Remember, the context is your entry
point to the rule system.
So once you're in the context,
you can ask it, hey,
what's the property I'm
working on right now?
What's the session, by the way?
What is the session I'm dealing with?
And then you do whatever
you want with it.
Right?
I'm not showing you how
you're localizing here.
It's just the point is
that's where you do it.
That's the entry point for
you to execute your own code.
You do whatever you want.
And then you return a value to us.
Let me show you that in the application.
Do we have the demo machine, please?
So this is our application.
Let's review where we are now.
Ernest just logged into our application,
and you'll notice that the first
page that came up was something
which we call the query all page.
This is the page from which you can
query on any entity in your database.
We don't like that.
That's what I give you by default.
You don't like it.
We're going to change that.
What we want to happen when a
user logs in is that instead
of seeing the query all page,
they jump right into the bug query page.
We want to pull them straight into
the page where they query on a certain
bug because they're looking for bugs.
But not only that,
we want to have that page be
different depending on the
kind of user that logged in.
If a normal user logged in,
we only want them to query
on two or three attributes.
If an advanced user logged in,
an engineer fixing the bug,
we want them to be able to
find bugs and more attributes.
How do we do that?
We use a named configuration.
How do we define the named configuration?
With rules.
Let's bring up the rule editor.
So here we have the three
rules that define our simple
query named configuration.
Remember, the name is arbitrary.
You can pick whatever you want.
When you define a named configuration,
the rule system needs to know, okay,
which task and which entity am I dealing
with when you ask for this configuration?
So that's what the two
bottom rules are for.
It says, if the named configuration
is simple query,
the entity is bug,
that's what we're doing,
and what we're doing with
the bug is querying on it.
So those are the two things we do.
The interesting rule is the first one.
Can you click on that first one?
The first rule says,
if we're in the simple
query named configuration,
and somebody asks us what the
display property keys are,
this is just an internal
Direct to Web key,
if somebody asks us which
properties of this entity
should I display in this case,
we say, oh, for simple query,
we only want title, description, project,
and creation date.
For advanced query,
let's go now to the rules that
define the advanced query.
We're using rule editor.
We have more rules defined in this file,
but we're filtering to show you only
the ones that are relevant to the demo.
So for the advanced query, again, we say,
the advanced query is
something that deals with bugs,
and we query on bugs.
And when you ask us what
properties you want to display,
we have a much bigger set of-- a
full set of all the properties.
So that's how we define
the configuration,
with three rules.
We're not writing code.
We will write a couple
lines of code right now,
but we're not rewriting your page.
So how do we plug in these
rules into your page?
Do you remember that when
I gave the first demo,
I said that the login
page didn't do anything?
It was just no logic.
You just click on the login button.
We're going to hook into that
page so that when the user
clicks on the login button,
By default,
we take you to the Query All page.
We don't want you-- we don't want
to take you to the Query All page.
We want to check which user logged in.
If a normal user logged in,
for demo purposes,
normal users are going to have
the login username just user,
and advanced users are going to
have the login username admin.
So can you go scroll down to the method?
So default page is the method
that is executed when you
log into the application.
We have some very simple logic here.
Can you highlight the if statement?
We initialize with the session
where you-- with the kind
of user that we're using.
And we just do a very simple check.
You know, if the person that's
logged in is called user,
let's call up the simple
query name configuration.
If the person that
logged in is named admin,
let's call up the advanced query.
Query name page.
If the person that logged
in is none of those,
let's bring up the default
page that should show up in
any direct web application.
We run the application.
We log out.
Log in as nobody right now.
So we log in as nobody.
There's the query all page.
We log out.
We log in as user.
There's our simple query page.
We log out.
We log in as admin.
There's our advanced query page.
Again,
there's very little code to do all this.
You're defining a lot of this in rules,
which are stored in a text file.
And the code you saw there was really
just to plug in the page that we
wanted to see right after we logged in,
and to call up the named configuration.
Again, where is this query page?
You haven't even seen it.
It's out in the Direct to Web framework,
and it's working for you.
The last thing I want to
show you in the demo is,
can you...
Let's show the query page
again in the browser.
So here's the query page.
Notice how the names of the
properties on the left are in English.
It says title, description, project,
state, creator, creation date, assignee,
and resolution.
Okay?
But not everybody speaks
English in this world.
We want to localize our application.
We want to use the rule
system to change those titles
without writing a lot of code.
Now, the Direct to Web,
when it's displaying this page,
it's resolving a binding called
display name for property.
As long as we can hook into that
binding and plug in our own code that
localizes the name we want to display,
we're okay,
which is what we're going to do now.
In the rule,
we had disabled that rule by the way,
so you wouldn't see it in
the first part of the demo.
Now we enabled the rule.
All the rule says is the following.
It says,
look at the lower left hand side,
that's sort of the
condition part of the rule.
It says, if my task is query and the
entity I am dealing with is bug,
And the key I'm trying to resolve
is display name for property.
That's one of the keys
that Direct to Web uses.
I want to plug in my own method
called localized property name.
That method is implemented in the custom
class called localized string assignment.
That's my own class.
Let's look at that class.
That class is in our project.
[Transcript missing]
So now let's see how
it looks in our-- oh,
the other thing I want to say about
this method is for demo purposes,
if the basic user logs in,
the one that has the username user,
that person speaks English.
So we won't localize their strings.
If the advanced user logs in,
the admin user,
that person speaks Spanish.
So we will localize their strings.
So let's look at the application.
So we log out.
Let's log in as user.
We are executing or localizing code,
but we're deciding that
this person speaks English.
So we say, remember,
we're using the name configuration.
We see title, description, project.
We log out.
We log in as admin.
And there we have our page with the
names of the properties in Spanish.
Okay?
So, quick review of,
can you log out Ernest?
Quick review of what we
accomplished with these three demos.
First, you gave us a model.
We gave you a full-fledged
running database application.
There it is.
You logged in.
You have all these pages you
don't have to write for edits,
for lists, for queries.
Those are there for you.
Can you go to the list page?
You weren't happy with the pages we
gave you from the HTML point of view?
You changed it.
You weren't happy with the pages
we gave you at the property level?
You plugged in your own component.
Can you log out?
Can you log in as user?
You wanted to reuse one page in
two different configurations?
You defined the named configuration
and you have a simple and an
advanced query configuration.
Can you log out?
You wanted to localize your
application and take advantage
of the rules of the rule system?
You define your own little,
you have your localized code somewhere,
you define one rule to resolve
the property names in this page,
and you have a localized page.
Okay?
That's the end of our Direct to Web demo.
Now that was a very simple, I mean,
non-flashy demo.
I didn't want to distract from
the essence of where the hooks
were for you as developers.
So at this time,
I'd like to bring up on stage
Patrice Gautier to show you...
How he has used Direct to Web to solve
a real world problem in a deployed
and currently running application.
Thanks Miguel.
Good afternoon.
So I just want to spend a few minutes and
share with you the absolutely tremendous
success we're having with Direct to Web.
First thing I'd like to explain
is what we do in one slide.
We're in the business of providing
business to business infrastructure
for real estate for large companies.
So we have customers
like Bank of America,
Prudential, IBM, and so on.
And we provide them with a mean
of basically finding landlords,
engaging them, negotiating,
closing lease and contracts online.
The process is long and complex,
typically three to six months.
And it's made complex because there's
a lot of actors touching this process.
You have the real estate
department of these companies.
You have brokers, agents,
service providers, lawyers, architects,
and so on.
They all do something at
some point in the process.
So when we model this,
we end up with a pretty large set of EOs,
something like 300.
So as a developer, when you start to deal
with that volume of data,
you should be very scared,
because that means a lot of code
for you to write and maintain.
We have three production applications
and they have 700 unique pages in them.
We also have internal applications.
So what we decided to do,
seeing this volume,
is we decided to base almost all
of our pages on Direct to Web.
Something like 95% at the moment is
using the very same pages or extended
version of these that Miguel showed you.
We have about 2200 rules,
but only 18 templates.
A lot of our pages come
from these templates,
about 95%. And what that means is we
spend our time mostly doing two things:
writing business logic,
writing little custom components like
the component that was shortening
the string that Miguel showed you,
and doing rules, only three per page.
And basically the upshot of all
this is that we're able to achieve
a tremendous volume of functionality
with very few people and a lot
less time than our competitors.
So I have a few screenshots to show you.
I hope that they're big
enough for you to see.
This is an example of List Page.
This is a Direct to Web List Page.
You can see that it looks
nothing like what Miguel had.
It has custom navigation.
Everything you see on this page
pretty much is driven by rules,
from the state of the navigation,
the strings you see on the screen,
all the names,
even the number of items shown per page,
and so on.
Here's a more interesting page.
We've added the wizard creation page,
which is a stepped wizard.
And we've added a few features
to the standard Direct to
Web inspect or edit page.
You can notice, if you can see them,
that some of the fields
have stars on their left,
which means that they're mandatory.
One really interesting characteristic
of Direct to Web pages is that
they know what property of
the model they're displaying.
And so they have access to a lot of
information that is not typically
accessible to a Direct to Web page.
They know, for example,
if a property is mandatory because
the model contains that information.
So it's just a matter of
automatically displaying a
star whenever that is the case.
And that is done automatically.
You don't have anything to do.
Another thing you can notice
is that some of these fields
have units on their right.
That is worth spending a minute
explaining how that works because it
goes at the very heart of the role power.
What happened is when we had
this app at the beginning,
it didn't have any of these
units and everybody started
coming back to us and said,
"Well, we don't know what parking
space is expressed as because
sometimes it's a ratio,
sometimes it's a number spot that you
really have to have units." So we started
thinking about how can we integrate
this with the Direct to Web page?
And the answer turns
out to be really simple.
We've done three things.
The first thing we did is add an
entry in the user info dictionary of
whatever property we're talking about.
For example, parking spaces,
we would say spaces in the user
info dictionary in the model.
Then we add one component that is able
to look up that property and display
it on the right of the text field.
And then we add exactly
one rule that says,
"If on the property you're displaying,
you find a unit in the
user info dictionary,
then use my unit component."
And with that one rule,
units show up throughout the app,
throughout 700 pages.
So you can imagine if you
start expanding on that,
the amount of time you're able to save.
Other things of interest on this page,
notice that we've also completely
changed the way validation works.
All the errors are collected at the
top and displayed in an English format.
Here is an edit tab page.
Again, we've changed the way it works.
We've added sections.
I don't know if you can see them,
but there's three tabs and
two sections in that tab.
Here's a tab and spec page
much the same as the other.
What I want to show you on this
page is how the help system works.
Again, Direct Web doesn't come
with a ton of help.
And you can see here we
have two kinds of help.
We have the little eye buttons
that are next to each field.
And that works the same way as the unit.
Basically, what we did is create a help
database and let our tech writer
access that database through,
of course, a Direct Web application.
So he or she accesses that
database and creates a help entry
for the size range of a project,
for example, described by this.
That bit of text is stored in a database.
When the app runs, again,
because it knows what
property it's displaying,
it's able to look up that bit of text
and display it behind the eye button.
If you press the eye button,
a little JavaScript window
will pop up with the help.
And because it knows that it's
attached to that property,
wherever that property
shows up in the app,
the help will be there.
You don't have to do anything.
And similarly,
the help that you see on top of
the window comes from the database.
And our tech writers actually have
the ability to edit the help on the
Direct to Web app and to see the
result of your edit live on the app.
I don't know how many of you
have to deal with web design
teams or tech writer teams,
but typically that is not what happens.
You have to ask them for help files,
integrate them in the app,
and then have them later
look at the result.
Here they can do it live.
That's a very big advantage.
And here's a slightly more complex page.
This is a tab page,
and it has two pick lists in them.
This is the page that we use
to engage or reject responses.
Just to see that you can
actually nest Direct to Web pages
within Direct to Web pages,
you have three in this page.
So I hope by those few examples,
I've shown you two things.
A, Direct to Web is not a toy.
It can scale to very
large amounts of data.
If you use it properly,
it will be a tremendous tool
to save time and effort.
To give you a point of reference,
the seven apps that I mentioned at
the beginning were developed by about
four to six people over one year.
Our competitors doing the same
type of functionality have
teams between 30 and 80 people.
And one last thing I want to mention,
if you missed the Stepwise
announcement on Tuesday,
we are open sourcing four of the base
frameworks that are used in those apps.
You can find them on our website.
I've posted the URL on Omni and Stepwise.
Thank you.
Back to Miguel.
Oops.
Thanks, Patrice.
Thank you.
So in summary,
Direct to Web integrates into the
Web Objects Development Model.
This isn't any new strange
technology that you have to
have a huge learning curve for.
You already know a lot of what you have
to know by being Web Objects Developers.
We give you a head start with a
lot of pre-built functionality.
We give you an application for free.
The default layout and
behavior can be customized.
That was the main point of the session.
You have a lot of places where
you can plug in your HTML and
your code as developers.
Rules introduce a new level
of customization for your
Direct to Web applications.
So think Java,
but also think a higher MEDA level there
in the way you develop your applications.
And of course, Direct to Web rules.
So there's our lab hours.
I believe tomorrow is the last day,
only half day, up to 3:30.
Interesting sessions
coming up in this room,
an advanced talk on EOF.
After that, in the same room,
the session on advanced Java client,
which uses the same rule
engine of Direct to Web,
but provides a Java front
end to your applications,
and the feedback forum tomorrow.
Contact information.